Hi will come back in this section we're going to be looking at some more advanced Python.
But first of all let me congratulate you on getting this far.
Hopefully you've learned quite a lot about Python but also about Pascola sequel interaction with databases
software development as a whole using API as web development just a bit of everything and hopefully
that gives you a bit more breadth in your software development.
However it is obvious that there are a lot of things that we haven't covered so this section is going
to cover more advanced concepts in Python and we're going to start these first few videos covering object
oriented programming just in a bit more depth just to give you a bit more knowledge regarding object
oriented programming.
Now we've looked at classes already but we've not looked at something that's really important Doherty's
inheritance inheritance is this thing that you may not use very often but it gives you such power and
clean code.
When the moment is right to use it that it would be very silly not to explain it's in this course.
Let's create a new project which I have done here.
Sorry about that.
The new project created my virtual environment for it.
I'm not sure if we're going to be using any libraries in this project but nevertheless creating a new
project just to show you guys a few of these examples.
And the first thing I'm going to do in this project is create a new Python package and I'm going to
call it o p.
And here I'm going to be writing the examples of object oriented programming.
I'm going to get a new python file inside that folder.
I'm going to call it inheritance in TRA.
Normally when teachers start explain inheritance and you may have found this if you looked at other
courses before this one the usual example is a class animal name and then this animal doesn't really
do much normally and then it's like dogs and cats and you get those examples but they're not very useful
nor very often are you going to be creating classes for animals and dogs and cats.
So I'm not going to go down that route of explaining inheritance using animals instead.
I'm going to give you a reasonably useful example.
Now this is not the most usual example in the world but I think this is actually something you could
potentially require or at least something similar at some point in your careers.
I'm going to start with a class decimal and this class is going to represent a decimal number.
And as you know decimal numbers sometimes should only be printed to a certain number of decimal places
for example.
A currency should only be printed to two small places normally and other numbers should be printed to
more decimal places some numbers should be printed to 0 decimal places others to one.
So this class decimal is going to represent a decimal number and also the number of decimal places which
it is printed to.
I'm going to define an in its method and here I'm going to put in the number and also the police as
the number of places in the that after the decimal point self-taught number equals number itself the
places equals places.
Now when we print a object of this class we are going to do so using the wrapper method as we know and
what we are going to be putting here is return present not to f.
And this Shafton number.
Now I'm going to give you an example and ask you what do you think is going to get printed out.
If I do print decimal fifteen point six seven eight nine and two places or three places.
So what I'm creating here is an object of typed decimal.
Fifteen point six seven eight nine is the number three is the places.
And when I printed this out you know the wrapper method is going to get cold.
What do you think is going to get printed out.
Forget about what I'm saying just look at the code and give it a wild guess.
OK hopefully you said fifteen point sixty eight and that is because this too.
There you may have guessed is the number of decimal places that is going to get printed out.
Now I wouldn't expect you to know that.
Well you could have given it a wild guess.
Let's run this.
And then indeed we get fifteen point sixty eight to this too.
There is the number of decimal places that are getting printed out and this and this format there is
the format to print out floating point numbers.
So you do percent not too.
And then there's a number of them are places and the F is for floating point ninety two percent self
on them.
So this would print a floating point number two to the.
But instead of the two we're going to do dot format self-taught places and where this is going to do
it is going to replace that for a number of places that we've given it.
And then it's going to get all that and it's going to do the formatting like that.
So we're using two different types of string formatting in the same place which may not be the best
thing to do but nevertheless it's quite concise and it's quite nice to do.
And it's a bit more difficult to do using only format because we have to apply this first and then apply
any other formatting after that.
So it's not it is easy to do using only the format method using these two separate pipes of string formatting
makes it quite concise.
OK what do you think is going to get printed out at this time.
Now I'd hope that you would see the three is going into places which is going into softer places.
So this thing here is going to be three which should mean that we'll get fifteen point six seven nine
because the nine rounded up so the nine should be in there and that is indeed what we get.
OK but I still haven't gotten to the interesting part which is inheritance and I agree with you I have
not.
But we're going to get there just now.
Decimals are very useful and now we have a way to kind of print decimals out easily and to a certain
number of decimal places.
OK.
That's nice.
It's not the most useful thing because we could just use that right.
However it becomes more useful when things start happening seemingly magically.
Let me give you an example.
Class currency and this class currency currency was always a decimal.
Sometimes it's sort of 10.00 but it's still a decimal right.
So this class currency is going to be inheriting from decimal.
So something we've not seen before.
We're going to put the decimal class inside brackets after currency which is our class.
OK.
And I'm just going to type pass and pass as you know means nothing new here.
Right.
Do nothing inside here in this block.
So it's class currency there's nothing.
Except it does everything that the decimal class does.
That's what inheritance it's all of the things.
Decimal can do.
And all of the properties.
Decimal has now currency has.
So effectively we could just replace this decimal there for currency.
And as you can see the difference is absolutely none.
Works the same way because currency is inheriting from decimal it's getting all of the properties and
methods from decimal.
And because it doesn't have anything in there it's just essentially a copy of it.
And now you're saying well that's not very useful.
Might as well just use decimal right.
Because I mean what's the point.
And you would be right.
But inheritance is just like in nature.
You know you have the the dog and then there's this.
2000 I may have a kid now or a pop and then the pope has traits from both.
Right.
Or potentially it even develops some new traits and we can do the same here in this class.
We can actually add to the decimal class without modifying decimal class.
So I'm going to create an innate method inside currency and this innate method.
Notice how if I say pass here that there's a yellow page I'm doesn't like this.
It tells me cold to init of superclass is missed it's saying this class currency has superclass a parent
class.
The same thing.
But in the end it's a method which is the constructor.
You are ignoring the superclass which means that the number and self places aren't going to have a value
.
So we can do that.
We have to pass in here number and places and then we have to say super dot unit number and places so
what this is doing is it's getting the superclass which is decimal and it's calling the init method
of the superclass passing it in the number of the places.
So now when we run this it's going to be exactly the same again.
OK so I'll show you a slight difference.
I can do number minus one for example.
And then when we press play this fifteen point six seven eight nine it's going to go to the currencies
in its method and then it's going to go into the decimals in its method but minus one should we should
see 14 printed out there and we do.
OK so now you see sort of the flow of these and how it's going something currencies have as well that
decimal numbers don't have our symbols symbol.
And I'm going to add that in as a parameter to the init method and I'm going to add it in here as well
.
Inside the init method of currency.
But notice that is not only init method of decimal.
So now I should add a symbol here at the front.
For example I'm going to add the pound symbol.
Notice that I can still print in the decimal.
I can still print a decimal without a symbol but now the currency doesn't need the same.
If I Pressplay though we're not going to see the symbol anywhere because the decimal is the class that
has the representation the currency does not have a representation.
And here in the decimal we don't have a symbol printed out anyway.
OK so what we have to do now is overwrite the Reppert method.
And what we're going to do is say return two of these brackets format.
Now I'll let you guess what's going to go in here.
We want to print the pound symbol.
And then this output I would recommend really stopping and having to think about what I mean and give
it a go.
How would you do that knowing that this has to be there.
I hope you gave it a go it's a good way to.
Can I try to get your head around things.
What I put here is self-assemble first that property is here in the currency.
But after that I would do super dot wrapper
and that calls the superclasses repr method which then uses cells or places and stuff that number to
printout the currents the decimal place.
So now when we print this out what we get when we print the currency out is the symbol in front when
we print the decimal out no symbol in front because we're calling this method up there when we print
the currency.
We're calling this method down here.
So this was a quick intro to inheritance.
And as you can see the currency class is inheriting from decimal.
And then we are overwriting it.
We can add more methods to it if we wanted.
By the way am I had currency.
And here we could have another sort of currency here we could do something like exchange between currencies
.
There's a lot of things we could do and this method would not be available in the pessimal class because
it is created inside the currency class.
However if we do the opposite when we do add here this added method would be available to the currency
class because it is part of the parent class.
OK.
So to recap the base class which is decimal lends all of its methods and properties to the children
class the children classes such as currency.
So currency inherits all of the stuff from decimal.
But then you can add more and those things do not feed back to the parent class.
Okay.
Thats everything for this video.
Hope you enjoy that maybe learn something.
And now we're covering a bit more advanced stuff but I'm trying to not make it complicated.
I just want to show you that these things exist.
So maybe later on on the line when you encounter a situation where you might to be able to use this
you'll think ah I could use inheritance here and that will simplify the code.
So that's the aim.
Hope you enjoy that.
I see you in the very next video